# Diagnostic-for-Heart-Disease-using-KNN-classification
Our project goal was to predict whether someone is at risk for heart disease or not using k-nn classification.  First, we load and clean our chosen dataset(Cleveland Heart Disease Dataset) by assigning column names and removing observations with missing values. Our final result variable, Target has 2 labels, namely 0 and 1, indicating risk and no risk respectively. As k-nn requires predictors to be numerical , we change the “ca” and “thal” variable accordingly. Using str functions, we find that age, trestbps, chol and thalach are greater values and hence the data needs to be standardized. Next, we split our data into training and testing sets using caret package and create rows for both using slice function. We then perform a data transformation on our training set, and then applied to both the sets separately. To choose the most accurate k, we perform cross-validation. Finally, we visualize accuracies of each k as shown in choose_k_plot and find k=5 to be the optimal choice. Finally, using the training set, we create our classifier, model_knn. We evaluate the training accuracy using confusionMatrix function, which is found to be Accuracy = 0.885521885521885 . To assess our model, we test classifier accuracy, acting on our test data set.  The impact of our project could be life-saving. Patients can be diagnosed with risk of heart disease in a short time just from the data of the patients’ attributes. Further improvement on the overall functioning can make our predictions for the risk of heart disease even more accurate. This would not only allow the medical authority, but also the people at risk to be more cautious and aware about their health. After all, precaution is better than cure.  Further data collection and analysis could even make it possible to predict the level of risk of heart disease as well the type of heart disease. Besides guiding people to be able to keep better precaution, this can also help the Doctors in Diagnosing a fatal illness at an early stage.
